Untold Stories of Historic Personages in Earth and Planetary Science and Astronomy Question Template


BIOGRAPHICAL QUESTIONS

Full Name: 
Gender: 
Birth: Date and location
Death: Date and location (if relevant)

Childhood:  Where did the subject grow up? Rural or urban area? What was the Subjects’ early family life like? Was their family religious? What was their families’ education level? Did the subject come from a family of scientists? What did the subject’s parents do?

Education:  What level of formal education did/does the subject have? Where did the subject attend school? Girls’ schools?  Public schools?  University?  What inspired the subject to study their scientific field of interest?
 
Personal Life: What was the personal life of the subject?  How did their personal life impact the career and work of the subject? Was the subject in love? Did the subject have a spouse? Children? Did the subject have to break away from expectations of family life? (For contemporary scientists, please respect their requests to keep some of this information private)

Mentors:  Did/does the subject have mentors? At university, in science, or life more broadly?
 
Professional life (inside and outside of the museum): What kind of work did the subject do early on in their career? How did the subject get involved in science?  How did the subject eventually get involved at the institution and how long did they work there for?  What department(s) did/does the subject work in? Was the subject paid for their work or were they a volunteer?
 
Field of Interest: What was/is the subject passionate about? Why was/is the subject interested in a particular field such as brown dwarves, climatology, solar eclipses, etc.? How can we describe the subject’s passion for the research, fieldwork, and/ or museum work?
 
Adversity:  What may have stood in the way of the subject pursuing science? Sexism? Classism? Racism?
 
Other Successes:  What successes did the subject achieve in science? What awards or recognitions, if any, did the subject receive?

Publications: What papers or books did the subject publish?
 
Memberships: What groups or associations was/is the subject affiliated with?

Ethics:  Did/does the subject have a particular set of ethics that impacted their life and work?  Did the subject have to make any ethical decisions about their work in science?
 
Continued Life Events:  How did the subject fare at the museum over time? If relevant, what was the longevity of the subject’s science career and interests? Any significant events affecting the subject in the later stages of their career? If relevant, how did the subject pass away?

Personal Interests: Did/does the subject have personal interests of note outside of their work in science?

Other Interesting Details:  Any particularly fascinating/ interesting stories either of a personal or public nature in the subject’s life?
